---
title: 2022/2023 winter reading
date: '2023-02-05'
tags: [books]
description: A quick review of recent reads
permalink: posts/{{ title | slug }}/index.html
---

The silver lining of a winter where both Twitter and my physical health have dropped in quality is that I've had a lot more time for reading. Fortunately the latter has picked up and the reading habit has stuck around. Here's what I've been enjoying:

#### The Homeless Library - arthur & martha - ★★★★☆

[Project information](https://arthur-martha.com/portfolio/the-homeless-library/).

#### Children of Men - P.D. James - ★★★★☆

#### Die With Zero - Bill Perkins - ★★★★☆

#### Mrs Dalloway - Virginia Woolf - ★★★★☆

I loved this. I wasn't prepared for how lyrical it would be and was glad to be listening to an audiobook with a great reader, Anjli Mohindra. Reading this in 2023 mirrors the book's writing and setting a few years after the 1918 Great Influenza pandemic, which seriously affected the health of both Woolf and Mrs Dalloway. I remember, as the isolation lifted, sharing Clarissa's joy in simply going out and seeing the world and running my little errands that Peter Walsh was so scornful of:

> And behind it all was that network of visiting, leaving cards, being kind to people; running about with bunches of flowers, little presents; So-and-so was going to France—must have an air-cushion; a real drain on her strength; all that interminable traffic that women of her sort keep up; but she did it genuinely, from a natural instinct.

[This New Yorker article](https://www.newyorker.com/books/page-turner/why-anxious-readers-under-quarantine-turn-to-virginia-woolfs-mrs-dalloway) by Evan Kindley is a good read that sums this all up nicely.

#### The Trial - Kafka - ★★★★★

#### Ice - Anna Kavan - ★★★☆☆

#### Utopia - Thomas More - ★★★★☆

This was a very interesting read. I was repeatedly surprised by the range of ideas present which shows how wrong my perception of that time was. It's hard to know how much license the translator took but it was very readable and accessible and even enjoyable for something written so long ago.

> Failing all else, their last resort will be: "This was good enough for our ancestors, and who are we to question their wisdom?" Then they'll settle back in their chairs, with an air of having said the last word on the subject - as if it would be a major disaster for anyone to be caught being wiser than his ancestors! And yet we're quite prepared to reverse their most sensible decisions. It's only the less intelligent ones that we cling on to like grim death.

I also enjoyed this incredible insult:

> Among those present was a professional diner-out, who wanted you to think that he was merely acting the fool but played the part almost too convincingly.

#### Culture Warlords - Talia Lavin ★★★☆☆

A very interesting and important subject matter let down a bit by a pompous writing style and a lack of focus and structure.

> A 2018 investigation by Amnesty International found that 62 percent of women given a survey in 2017 had faced harassment on Twitter, ranging from gendered and racial slurs to threats of rape and violence. This frequently leads to self-censorship on both a large and a small scale, a careful choosing of words, or a choice not to speak at all on the platforms that shape news cycles, political opinions, and interpersonal relationships.

#### The Road To Wigan Pier - George Orwell ★★★★★

He really hated fruit juice drinkers.